<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article id="screensaver" lang="&language;">
<articleinfo>
<title>Screen Locker</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>&Mike.McBride; &Mike.McBride.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2012-11-17</date>
<releaseinfo>&kde; 4.10</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>systemsettings</keyword>
<keyword>screensaver</keyword>
<keyword>screen saver</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>

<sect1 id="kcm_screensaver">

<title>Screen Locker</title>

<para>Using this module, you can choose your screen saver, determine
how much time must pass before the screen saver is activated, and add
or remove password protection to your screen saver.</para>

<sect2 id="ss-options">
<title>Setting the time, priority and passwords for screen
savers.</title>

<para>At the top is a check box to have the screen saver <guilabel>Start automatically after</guilabel>, 
and a spin box which determines the period of inactivity before the screen saver should be started. 
You can enter any positive number of minutes in this box.</para>

<para>Below that is a check box labeled <guilabel>Require password 
after</guilabel>.  If it is checked, when you click a key
or click a mouse button to end the screen saver after the time in the spinbox and return to your
work, you must enter a password.  The password used is the same
password you used to login to your machine.  If there is no mark in
the check box, no password is required to return to your
desktop.</para>

<para>Locking the desktop manually causes the password protection to engage immediately.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="ss-choose">
<title>Choosing the screen saver, and configuring its options</title>

<para>Use the <guilabel>Simple locker</guilabel> option for a basic unlock dialog that prompts for a password.</para>

<para>If you would like to have some interactive widgets like notes or a player 
on the locked screen saver, select <guilabel>Desktop Widgets</guilabel> 
and click the <guibutton>Configure...</guibutton> button to select your 
favorite widgets.
</para>

<para>To enable the selection of all available screen savers select the <guilabel>Screen 
saver</guilabel> option. You can select a screen saver by simply clicking on its name.  
Once you have selected a screen saver, you will see a small preview on the 
monitor on the right.</para>

<note><para>The preview monitor will often show the screen saver
larger than it is when the screen saver is activated.  This is done on
purpose, since many of the details of the screen savers would be
unintelligible if actually scaled down to such a small
size.</para></note>

<para>Each screen saver has a different set of setup options.  By
clicking on <guilabel>Setup...</guilabel>, a dialog box will appear with
all available options.  As you adjust the options, the preview box in
the dialog box will show you what effect you will achieve with the
current settings.</para>

<para>When you are done setting up your screen saver, click
<guibutton>OK</guibutton>.</para> <para>Clicking <guibutton>Cancel</guibutton>
will erase any changes you made in this dialog box, and return you to the
screen saver module.</para>

<para>For most screen savers a description, Copyright and Author information
is shown directly in the dialog, for others you need to click the 
<guibutton>About</guibutton> button to read this information.</para>

<para>When you think you have all the options set the way you want,
simply click on <guibutton>Test</guibutton> to immediately start the
screen saver <emphasis>exactly</emphasis> as it will appear.</para>

</sect2>

<!--FIXME still true in 4.10?-->
<sect2 id="ss-other"><title>Using a non-&kde; screen saver</title> 

<para>&kde; does not prevent another screen saver from working.  To use a
different screen saver, such as <application>xscreensaver</application>, simply
disable the &kde; Screen Saver, and set up your other screen saver program
normally.  </para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</article>
